<!-- date: 2026-06-03 -->

# Learnings on social media and authenticity


It has now been about 4 months since I've quit my position at Fiducial and went on some sort of semester on leave. Over the past 4 months, I have created content on social media on a daily basis (IG: @hanqiu.mp4) where I now focus mainly on improving how I speak in front of a camera.

The first few videos were quite rough, I had no idea what I'm doing. But just like with everything in life, one learns, adapts, and things become habits / skills. One very important thing I noticed from these videos is that people online absolutely can sniff out whether you are authentic or not. It also takes some weird sense of courage (? not sure if it's the right word) to actually put yourself out there, and not be a "camera ready" version of yourself. Over 100+ posts later, I slowly started to be more natural in front of the camera, and actually put my real views out there on the internet.

A few things I learned while being as authentic as I can on social media: 
- No matter what you think, or how you think it, you can never fully please everywhere out there. In fact, a lot of people that agree with you will probably never reply, but rather the people that strongly oppose your view will voice their opinion instead, so most of the feedback you get will be "negative" in a sense.
- People can be hateful on such platforms, it can get to you at first but you eventually learn to ignore it and grow a thicker skin.
- Packaging matters up to only a certain point. After a certain threshold, everything that dictates the success of your content is the actual message itself. If you ramble things that don't make sense or feel like empty, no matter how good your editing is the video is not going to save itself.

While I somehow learned to be more authentic on camera, I found myself sometimes not being true to myself or my loved ones in real life. How is one authentic if they doesn't even know themselves? This is a problem I deeply suffered from during the last months as I am continuing to try to find myself, and honestly I don't know if I will ever manage to do so. My opinions waver a lot, very often, and I feel to be a person who is easily affected by external, fleeting circumstances and people. I guess I'm at least aware of this fact, so that's a step, but it's still something that definitely needs work still.
