<!-- date: 2026-01-24 -->

# On failing, stepping back, and finding a purpose

Last summer I decided to put my studies on hold and join a startup against the wish of my parents. For the first time in my life, I was not following the "ideal" path that was carved out for me, taking a detour from the ideal academic trajectory that I initially had in mind.

Fast forward a few months, I realized that it wasn't really what I was looking for. The tech stack was quite different from what I wanted to work on, and although the product would make a huge impact on people's lives, I didn't feel connected to it. Just a couple of weeks ago, I decided to part ways from the company. 

After having tasted this sweetness of "agency", I thought the obvious next step was to found a company of my own. Over the past months I kept seeing posts on Linkedin and Instagram about founders, the startup culture, the grind, SF... It looked very appealing and exciting and I felt the want to join in on the hustle.

Right after handing in my resignation, I applied to a startup accelerator that would fly 40 people out to SF and build something for 8 weeks. It seemed prestigious and fancy, but while preparing the application I was already planning for alternatives and backup plans. Maybe deep inside I knew that the thing wasn't for me.
I was never the guy who was too excited to look at code, to build products and talk to investors and such... But still I wanted to have a shot at it? 

Then the interview came, I got ABSOLUTELY wrecked, not even in hard technical interviews I was grilled to this extent. One question particularly struck me: "Why not just... build things on your own? You don't really need to be in this accelerator to start something".

I was actually kind of relieved when the rejection email came in the day after the interview. Deep down inside I knew that it probably wasn't for me, at least at this point in my life.

Agency isn't about being successful in other people's eyes, it's quite literally just doing what your heart tells you to. Steve Job's speech is something that comes to my mind very often nowadays:

<iframe width="100%" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/QYAnJ_QyCQg" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Now, I don't exactly know what that is for me yet. Over the next few months my goal is to explore my own solution space: what is the purpose that I want to optimize for? 

Things that I plan to do:

- I'll still try to build a product of my own, but out of personal curiosity and drive, not because I need to impress others by being a "founder". 

- Consistent content creation over the next months, both as blogposts and videos, which is something that I've always been putting off.

- Learn math properly. I think math is cool, but I've always optimized for grades rather than actually understanding the stuff properly.

- Travel a lot. Expand my horizon and meet new people.

- Spend more time with my mother.

I want to document here all the things that I realize and learn, which is a big reason why I started this page in the first place. 

To living life fully!
